[Old] docs(array): add section on persistence mutation and context manager (#610)
jina-ai/docarray: docs/advanced/document-store/index.md

```

Documents inside a DocumentArray can live in a [document store](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Document-oriented_database) instead of in memory, e.g. in SQLite, Redis.
The benefit of using an external store over an in-memory store is often about longer persistence and faster retrieval. 

The look-and-feel of a DocumentArray with external store is **almost the same** as a regular in-memory DocumentArray. This allows users to easily switch between backends under the same DocArray idiom.  

> Take SQLite as an example, using it as the storage backend of a DocumentArray is as simple as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Take SQLite as an example. Using it as the storage backend of a DocumentArray is as simple as follows:
```

│                                                                            │
╰────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────╯
```
Note that `da` was modified inside a `with` statement. This context manager ensures that the the `DocumentArray` indices,
which allow users to access the  `DocumentArray` by position (allowing statements such as `da[1]`),
are properly mapped and saved to the storage backend.
This is the recommended default usage to modify a DocumentArray that lives on a document store to avoid
unexpected behaviors that can yield to, for example, inaccessible elements by position.

> Creating, retrieving, updating, and deleting Documents are identical to that of a regular {ref}`DocumentArray<documentarray>`. All DocumentArray methods such as `.summary()`, `.embed()`, `.plot_embeddings()` should also work out of the box.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The procedures for creating, retrieving, updating, and deleting Documents are identical to those for a regular {ref}`DocumentArray<documentarray>`. All DocumentArray methods such as `.summary()`, `.embed()`, `.plot_embeddings()` should also work out of the box.
```

       [4., 4., 4.]])
```

## Persistence, mutations and context manager

> Having DocumentArrays that are backed by an external store does however introduce an extra consideration into the way one thinks about DocumentArrays.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Having DocumentArrays that are backed by a document store introduces an extra consideration into the way you think about DocumentArrays.
```

Small thing, but let's not assume that people have read the section above. They might have come from an outside link, or just scanned over the rest bc they very looking specifically for this section.

Also, we generally prefer `you` over `one` or `we`.

> The DocumentArray object created in our Python program is now a view of the underlying implementation in the external store.
> This means that our DocumentArray object in Python can be out of sync with what is persisted to the external store.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The DocumentArray object created in your Python program is now a view of the underlying implementation in the external store.
This means that your DocumentArray object in Python can be out of sync with what is persisted to the external store.
```

**For example**
```python
from docarray import DocumentArray, Document

da1 = DocumentArray(storage='redis', config=dict(n_dim=3, index_name="my_index"))
da1.append(Document())
print(f"Length of da1 is {len(da1)}")

da2 = DocumentArray(storage='redis', config=dict(n_dim=3, index_name="my_index"))
print(f"Length of da2 is {len(da2)}")
```
**Output**
```console
Length of da1 is 1
Length of da2 is 0
```

Executing this script multiple times yields the same result.

> When we ran the line `da1.append(Document())`, we expect the DocumentArray with `index_name="my_index"` to now have a length of `1`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When we run the line `da1.append(Document())`, we expect the DocumentArray with `index_name="my_index"` to now have a length of `1`.
```

> When we run the line `da1.append(Document())`, we expect the DocumentArray with `index_name="my_index"` to now have a length of `1`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When we run the line `da1.append(Document())`, we expect the DocumentArray with `index_name='my_index'` to now have a length of `1`.
```

However, when we try to create another view of the DocumentArray in `da2`, we get a fresh DocumentArray.

We also expect the script to increment the length of the DocumentArrays every time we run it.
This is because the previous run should have saved the length of the DocumentArray with `index_name="my_index"` and our most recent run will append a new document, incrementing the length by `+1` each time.

However, it seems like our append operation is also not being persisted.

````{dropdown} What actually happened here?

> The DocumentArray actually did persist.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The DocumentArray actually did persist,
```

> But not in the way we might expect.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
but not in the way we might expect.
```

Since we did not use the `with` context manager or scope our mutation, the persistence logic is being evaluated when the program exits.
`da1` is destroyed first, persisting the DocumentArray of length `1`.

> But when `da2` is destroyed, it persists a DocumentArray of length `0` to the same index in Redis as `da1`, overriding it's value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
But when `da2` is destroyed, it persists a DocumentArray of length `0` to the same index in Redis as `da1`, overriding its value.
```

> This means that if we had not created `da2`, the overriding would not have occured and the script will actually increment the length of the DocumentArray correctly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This means that if we had not created `da2`, the overriding would not have occured and the script would actually increment the length of the DocumentArray correctly.
```

You can prove this to yourself by commenting out the last 2 lines of the script and running the script repeatedly.

**Script**
```python
from docarray import DocumentArray, Document

da1 = DocumentArray(storage='redis', config=dict(n_dim=3, index_name="my_index"))
da1.append(Document())
print(f"Length of da1 is {len(da1)}")

# da2 = DocumentArray(storage='redis', config=dict(n_dim=3, index_name="my_index"))
# print(f"Length of da2 is {len(da2)}")
```

**First run output**
```console
Length of da1 is 1
```
**Second run output**
```console
Length of da1 is 2
```
**Third run output**
```console
Length of da1 is 3
```
````

> Now that we know the issue, let's explore some idioms we can use to work with DocumentArrays backed by external storage in a more predictable manner

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that we know the issue, let's explore some idioms we can use to work with DocumentArrays backed by external storage in a more predictable manner.
```

### Using Context Manager
The recommended way is to use the DocumentArray as a context manager like so:

```python
from docarray import DocumentArray, Document

da1 = DocumentArray(storage='redis', config=dict(n_dim=3, index_name="my_index"))
with da1:  # Let's use the context manager to make sure we persist the mutation
    da1.append(Document())  #
print(f"Length of da1 is {len(da1)}")

da2 = DocumentArray(storage='redis', config=dict(n_dim=3, index_name="my_index"))
print(f"Length of da2 is {len(da2)}")
```
**First run output**
```console
Length of da1 is 1
Length of da2 is 1
```
**Second run output**
```console
Length of da1 is 2
Length of da2 is 2
```
**Third run output**
```console
Length of da1 is 3
Length of da2 is 3
```

The append we made to the DocumentArray is now persisted properly. Hurray!

### Using Scope

> Another method that is sometimes useful when multiple DocumentArrays are involed is to perform the mutation in a function scope.

Reviewer 2: Honestly I don't think that we should even tell users about this.
Using the context manager seems safer and more predictable, and it would be our single (official) way of doing things, which is always good.

Reviewer 3: More than that actually I am not sure that the behavior will persist indefinitely (with future releases). And users should never do that so I would agree not to tell about that part.

Author: Yup agree. Seems like bad practice so probably shouldn't recommend it though it works in the current release.

Author: Should we not support it then? I think @alaeddine-13 is proposing we don't have the persistence logic in `__del__` at all in his [latest comment on the SystemExit behavior PR](https://github.com/jina-ai/docarray/pull/604#pullrequestreview-1138612018)

Reviewer 4: No function scope at all, this should be removed. Plus in Python u do not know when they will be released
